---
setup: |
  import Layout from '../../layouts/BlogPostLayout.astro';
title: SourceKit
description: Source Kit - swift completion
date: 2020-07-15
author: "Gold Ayan"
draft: true
category: "Coding"
tags:
  - swift
  - lsp
---

Sourcekit is the program used by XCode (Apple IDE for iOS,MacOs and others) for
swift code completion. **SourceKit-LSP** is written on top of source kit.I
started exploring this for autocompletion in Neovim which i achieved through
coc-sourcekit. SourceKit-LSP only provide support to swift packages not xcode
project as of now so i looked for other ways to bring ide features.

After exploring issues in swift forums and sourcekit lsp github i came to know
that sourcekit lsp works based on indexdb. It is created while building
project. I thought whether it can point to index file generated by xcode
project.

When i checked for possible arguments in sourcekit lsp, we can override the
build index path so i checked with coc-sourcekit but it didn't work...

I didn't know there is another player in this game which is **sourcekitten**.
It can also talk to sourcekit and there are tools does awesome things with it.I
came across this blog
https://academy.realm.io/posts/appbuilders-jp-simard-sourcekit/ which provide
ton of ways to use sourcekit.

One important thing i learned from above post is that we can generate code from
it. (Mind blown) `export SOURCEKIT_LOGGING=3 && /Applications/Xcode6-Beta2.app/Contents/MacOS/Xcode` using above command we
can check xpc communication ( Inter process communication in mac ) between
Xcode and sourcekit.
